What I found most surprising about this article was how little it seemed to emphasize the importance of tools themselves. The top list of most important competencies seemed focused more on team skill and the ability to learn new software than technical skills. Even while it was comforting that the article emphasized the importance of learning tools, I still feel unsure of how I would respond to a job interview when they ask if I have experience in specific programs, such as robohelp for example. 

Though that part of the article was quite interesting, I found the open-ended responses section to be a bit underwhelming. The list seemed like a generic list that could have been for any job application and so that section in particular didn’t seem very helpful.

After finishing this article I considered two main questions. The first was the one above of how to respond in a job interview, but I think insight from professors could cover that quite easily. The other question I wondered was, how could I use my time in graduate school to ensure I gained the skill to work effectively with a team of subject-matter expert? While my time in the technical communication department has given me access to plenty of team projects, all of them have been with other technical communication majors and haven’t really emulated an actual work environment. I imagine there will be unique challenges when working with subject-matter experts and I hope I can develop better ways of dealing with. For example, I would imagine there would be a lot of issue with subject-matter experts being tied to terms of art which might stand in the way of clarity. 

Overall I found this article to be enlightening, but I did wonder why they settled on a sample size as small as 67. While I recognize that most of this information is accurate, I would imagine access to more information would reveal a lot more about the field such as how salary relates to expected competencies. That is one thing that was of particular interest to me because there is obviously a relationship between salary and what is expected of you, but many of the higher paying job listings I’ve seen have asked for very specific tool skills and I would be interested in knowing if that is actually what is expected or if they are fishing for a dream employee. 
