Response to Identifying New Topics in TC Curricula: Preparing Students for Success in a Changing World; Spyridakis 

In “Identifying New Topics in TC Curricula: Preparing Students for Success in a Changing World,” Dr. Spyridakis discusses the topics she believes would best prepare students for the current market and the technology that drives it. She open by discussing the content of current technical communication programs. Her findings suggest that most programs focus on rhetoric and genre writing. It’s worth noting that about half of programs require a web class, but the percent of courses in usability and research methods were quite low comparatively. This research suggests that most TC majors are well prepared as writers, but may have missed an opportunity to learn other skills specifically UX and ethics.

The next section covers job titles based on a huge collection of job ads. While many of the titles were expected many I would have not immediately thought of for example: Usability testing, interaction design, international communication, and ethics proseminar.

Drawing on this collection of ads Spyridakis develops a list of 63 core competencies that technical communicators can benefit from knowing. It begins with a list of skills that would be expected of anyone applying for any technical communication job. These include: basic writing skills, graphs, management, interview skills. The next level of skills are useful but not critical and this section focuses on tool knowledge. These include: HTML, XML, Madcap, Framemaker, and the Adobe Suite. The last section of skills is how high level technical communicators can differentiate themselves from one another. These include: C++, HTML 5, CSS, Java, Android, and other coding languages. This data leads her to the conclusion that we need a greater focus on User Experience design. The intersection makes a lot of sense and being that I was already interested in big data it’s exciting to hear big data analysis skills listed as related to our field.

She continues to discuss how we would best teach these skills. She first emphasizes that we teach durable skills, or the theory behind tools instead of tools themselves. I was glad to see a lot of skill I believe UNT will prepare me with on the list. Though I am interested in where I could learn more about Ux, research methods, statistics, programing, and to a lesser extent management. 

So far all of our readings seem to follow the theme that tech comm courses need to teach students theories behind technology they will be expected to use. I also thought it was interesting how similar her conclusions were to Albers as far as the need to look for new niches for specialization. It’s funny how complicated the job application process seemed to be considering how many skills we have, but with a small amount of specialization that skill set can express itself better and open up a lot of opportunity

This article left me excited about the program here because it seems we have classes covering many of these skills, but at the same time it would be nice if there was more interaction between majors outside of a cognate. Though, we’ve covered the problems of academia to death it still frustrates me that working with other majors would provide such a better opportunity.
